# Open Replication Code: Novel Measures of Feedlot Ammonia Emissions: Indirectly through Random Forest Regression on Spectral Data and Directly through Spectral Matched Filter

Replication code for a senior thesis project on feedlot ammonia emissions. Repository and code cleanup are a work in progress. 
 
Abstract:
Industrial-scale livestock farms, or Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs), are a major source of air pollutants including ammonia, methane, and hydrogen sulfide. Ammonia is a major contributor to rural air pollution that is released from the breakdown of livestock effluent. Mitigating regional air pollution through improved waste management practices is only possible if emissions can be accurately monitored. However, ammonia is challenging to measure directly due to its short atmospheric lifetime and weak spectral signature.
Here I investigate the potential for spectroscopic imaging of the land surface to predict the presence of detectable ammonia emissions. Data on feedlot level emission rates from the California Air Resources Board were correlated with pixel-level reflectance spectra from the Earth Surface Mineral Dust Source (EMIT) instrument. Though feedlot size is highly correlated with emission rate, rates could also be weakly predicted from only surface reflectance spectra using random forest regression models. I additionally investigated the direct detection of ammonia concentrations from spectral data using a spectral matched filter and found that the distribution of detected ammonia matched well with known ammonia sources. My conclusions are limited by the small number of feedlots with emissions data (n=22) and the time gap between emissions and spectral data. However, these results suggest that both random forest regression on surface covariates and direct detection via spectral matched filter are viable approaches to monitoring of ammonia emissions. 
